---
title: Autopsy 
date: 2024-04-19
---

# Time of Death: <span style="font-weight: 100">July 1st, 2023, 12:00 am </span><br> Cause of Death: <span style="font-weight: 100">Hell if I Know</span><br> Coroner’s Notes: <span style="font-weight: 100">God When Will I Learn</span>

# Examination Findings: 

## Head: 

There can’t be a cause of death because it can’t be dead. You can’t say goodbye to this; he was supposed to be the one. We were supposed to be forever; a “maybe” for all time, but for all time nonetheless. What could possibly kill an angel and a witch? It couldn't have been your eyes, because that means it could have been the way that you two looked at each other, there in the darkness of your dorm room when no one was there to see you in the arms that felt like home, or the tears you spent months drunk on, or the fleeting glances that were all he could spare you in the halls of the school where everyone knew and no one was allowed to know. It couldn’t have been your hair, because that means it could have been the twirling circles he wrapped the loose auburn strands in for those endless days where you spoke to each other through movies to say all you couldn’t find the words for, or the soothing scratches he left on your scalp under the light of the moon that was the only witness to when fire met ice. It couldn’t have been your lips, because that means it could have been all the whispered words you shared between those sheets, any of those “I love you’s” or “You’re safe’s” or “always’s” or “pretty girl’s” or “My Angel’s”, or any of the kisses you shared when saying hello or goodbye, when waking up and falling asleep, when healing wounds and kissing scars. It couldn’t have been your brain, because that means it could have been the swirl of dopamine and dreams that coursed through you when he told you that you were the one, or the daydreams about your kids running through the backyard from your wrap around porch, or the thousands upon thousands of words you wrote for him but never had the courage to share. It couldn’t have been your head, because that means that it could have been you.

## Left Arm:

Maybe the cause of death was karmic justice. How else could a man who held your tear-stained face kiss it goodbye when he knew you were going home to a house that was haunted by memories and anything but safe? Maybe it had to die, because why else would you be sleeping alone in the room of the woman in the wheelchair who raised you, the bed where you found her with a drooping face and no more fight left in her, with nothing but the palm of your own hand resting on the cheek where he always used to cup his when he proved to you that the nightmares were just that? Maybe it was meant to die, because what else could explain why you’re wandering woodland trails you promised you’d show him someday with bare feet and a barren chest, fingertips grazing the bark of silent pines that were supposed to be witnesses to the triumph of the love you both said would always be there? What else could have caused this if not the loss of the heart you tore out when you shifted that tassel to the same side as the hand that’s now always as cold as you are and kissed him goodbye in the chaos of the crowd by the bathroom? Maybe you should have died before you did, maybe you should have stayed planted on the rusted iron of the train track in front of the park bench you shared with him on the only date he ever took you on. Why the hell should you live when he couldn’t even hold the hand that feels like it will be clenched in this fist forever? Maybe you should have pushed him onto the tracks instead; maybe then he would understand the way it felt when you tried to drown yourself in sheets that smelled like him during those months when he couldn’t bear to touch you. How else are you going to stop being the only trainwreck he ever knew the touch of? Don’t worry, rigor mortis won’t set in before you can stretch this hand out to his face one last time.

## Right Arm: 

Did you try hard enough? Are you sure that there wasn’t anything else you could have done? How can you know that the tears he never let you wipe away didn’t hold the secret to holding the two of you together? Maybe that’s why he preferred to let them dry; if you could just wipe one away now, maybe the tips of a witch’s right hand would hold enough magic to make him stay by your side even after you sewed the feathers of his wings back onto the empty sockets on his scarred back. Are you sure that the secret wasn’t on the shoulder you rested your right hand on the night the two of you had your only dance, embroidering the tiled floor of a darkened dorm room with gold before you ever graced the dance floor he watched you on? Maybe if you brush it just right, you could do more than brush the weight of the world off his shoulders; maybe you could leave a trace of your touch strong enough to hold him, a hand print warmer than the hand-shaped burns he left on your hips, a reminder of you loud enough that he couldn’t ignore it the way he did your pleas when he walked away. Maybe if you wrap this arm tight enough around his shoulder when you rested your head on the top of his in the window of that third floor dorm room he wouldn’t believe that his heavenly destiny was a righteous enough cause to abandon this damned love. Maybe if you just try hard enough, call him once at three a.m. on a night where the wintry water looks more inviting than your bed, he’ll answer and he’ll tell you he’s coming to save you, the angel flying on repaired wings to whisk you away from the hell you’ve condemned yourself to. Maybe if you just try.

## Torso: 

This empty cavity will be here forever. What did you expect when you gave your heart away? Don’t look so down, don’t you see the silver lining? This wound will never stop bleeding, so you’ll never run out of ink. Now you have all you could need to paint the pages with poetry you’ll never have the energy to write. I’m sure that’ll get him back, if only you were brave enough to share it. But you never will be. You never were, why would you be now? If you can’t do it with a beating heart, how can you do it without one? Don’t worry; he wouldn’t break it for you then, he won’t now. Good thing, since he’ll be holding it forever. Do you think you’ll ever get used to breathing without lungs? You were used to holding your breath from months of loving someone who could never give you more than a maybe when you asked for forever, but does it feel different knowing that they’ll never come back? I guess you found something worse than maybe; never. Never draw another breath, never hear another heart beat, never feel another butterfly in your long empty stomach; even a liver couldn’t grow back from something like this. Necrosis sets in when you give up the ghost, and the ghosts gave up on you a long time ago. How does that feel, to know that the empty hole where your heart used to be isn’t even worth haunting anymore? Still think it’s worth it to promise someone forever when they won’t even promise you tomorrow? Put on the playlist, you know the one, the one that grew longer and longer in that year where your sight grew shorter and shorter. Now that you’ve settled for nothing in exchange for everything, are you really surprised that everything outside of him feels like nothing? Oh you poor, stupid, heartless, heartbroken, empty-chested girl, what did you think would happen? Ribs can only take so much pressure before they crack, the touch of an angel was something no man could bear, and you were never very good at being a man. You were never good at being anything really, not anything that wasn’t his. Something tragically beautiful is always tragic before it is beautiful, and the darkened cavity where your heart should be is the most tragically beautiful piece of art you’ve ever made. 

## Legs: 

Right, left, right, left; can you walk away from death? I guess we’ll find out. Your legs were restless even when your cheeks were red, and he always said the only way to do it was one foot in front of the other. Guess it’s time to take his advice now that he’s not here to give it anymore. Surely if rosacea can resurrect, you can, too. But you know it will take work, right? You know it won’t be easy; nothing to do with him ever was. Why would letting go of him be any different? It seems impossible, true, but I raise you this: why should he be the only one who gets to walk away? Just because he was your whole world doesn’t mean that this one ceased existing, even if the world of the two of you has long since died. You don’t need to colonize a new planet, no need to terraform Mars; Earth is right there, below your bare feet. You lost the calluses a childhood of wandering woodland trails built up when you spent all those months in bed with the idea of him, but there’s only one way to build them back up: one foot in front of the other. So get up. A scalpel has no use for a girl who hasn’t given up yet, and the heaving in your chest is nothing if not painful proof that you haven’t kicked that bucket. Try not to walk backwards, but remember that so long as you keep putting one foot in front of the other, even backwards will become forwards eventually; this world is round, not shaped like him. You walked through hell a dozen times over before you ever stopped running to stand by his side, you can do it again. Leave the angel to fight his demons and focus on befriending yours. You were always the phoenix, the girl who was reborn a thousand times over; death never held much sway over someone who’s lived as many lives as you, don’t let it start now. Sift through the ashes and you’ll find enough pieces for a new foundation, and besides, ashes make good fertilizer. Volcanic soil is among the most fertile on Earth, and you planted your feet on the side of an erupting mountain when you devoted yourself to him; pick your feet up, walk down that mountainside, leave the Mt. St. Helens to destroy itself in the way it always would and grow something greener than he could ever imagine. You deserve better than to be Pompeii, and you’ve been entombed long enough. The sun always rises, no matter how beautiful the empty moon is, and when it does you’ll be right there standing on your own two feet and shining brighter than it ever could. Only this time, it won’t be because he told you you were shining, it will be because you decided to. And the beauty of it all? He won’t be there to see it, and that means you don’t have to dim yourself to spare a blind man realizing he never saw what was right in front of him.
